
Mar/IO is a fun little AI project developed by Youtube and computer engineer Sethbling. In his [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qv6UVOQ0F44) we see him demo the AI, give a good demonstration of NEAT based training, and in the description he provides all the scripts needed to get this running locally on your computer. I had a friend ask about how AI training worked for a college project, and the recognizable goal of mario and UI representation of the AI seemed like a perfect tool to explain things. There's one problem though, all of those links are dead. 

The decay of the internet isn't something that gets discussed often, and is probably worth it's own discussion. Servers shut down, links get invalidated as resources get moved around, entire filetypes become deprecated when a company decides they're no longer worth keeping around (hello Flash). The fact that a nearly 10 year old video has a pastebin link that no longer works shouldn't surprise me, but it did sting a bit. 

With a bit of Googling and time spent following chains of github forks I was able to locate a working version of Mar/IO. Not the original UI in the video, but close enough that it still did the job. In an effort to do my part keeping the entropy out just a little bit longer I'm providing a guide on setting all of this up here: 

## Dolphin Emulator

## The Mar/IO Scripts

## Configuration

## Training the AI 

## Links
https://github.com/mam91/neat-genetic-mario

`---

In an effort to ensure that Mar/IO remains available for at least a few more years, I've forked the Github pages to my account so you can access them [here] in case the main page ever goes down. I've also put together a .zip package that has the Emulator and pre-configured Mar/IO scripts ready to go, just unzip and follow the steps in **Training the AI**. 